The President:
All across America are good, decent folks who meet their
obligations each and every day.
They work hard.
They support their families.
They try to make an honest
living the best they can.
And this weekend, many are
sitting down to pay the taxes
they owe -- not
because it's fun,
but because it's a fundamental responsibility of our citizenship.
But in tough times, when many
families are having trouble just
making it all work, Tax Day
can seem even more daunting.
This year, however, many
Americans are seeing some
welcome relief.
So far, Americans who have filed
their taxes have discovered that
the average refund is up
nearly 10% this year --
to an all-time high
of about $3,000.
This is due in large
part to the Recovery Act.
In fact, one-third of the
Recovery Act was made up of tax
cuts -- tax cuts that have already provided more than
$160 billion in relief for families and businesses,
and nearly $100 billion of that
goes directly into the pockets
of working Americans.
No one I've met is
looking for a handout.
And that's not what
these tax cuts are.
Instead, they're targeted relief
to help middle class families
weather the storm, to
jumpstart our economy,
and to bring the fundamentals
of the American Dream --
making an honest living, earning
an education, owning a home,
and raising a family -- back within reach for millions of Americans.
First, because folks who work
hard should be able to make a
decent living, I kept a promise
I made when I campaigned for
this office and cut taxes for
95% of working Americans.
For most Americans, this Making
Work Pay tax credit began
showing up in your
paychecks last April.
And it continues this year, for
a total of $400 per individual
and $800 per couple, per year.
Second, because a college
education is critical to the
success of our workers
and our economy,
we're helping to make it more
affordable for millions of Americans.
Millions of students and parents
paying for college tuition are
now eligible for up to $2,500
under the American Opportunity Credit.
Along with a host of
other steps we've taken,
this will help us reach our goal
of once again having the highest
proportion of college graduates
in the world by 2020.
Third, we're restoring the home
as a source of stability and an
anchor of the American Dream.
If you've bought a home
for the first time,
you're eligible for a
credit of up to $8,000.
And if you bought a
new car last year,
you can deduct the state and local sales taxes you paid on that car.
Fourth, whether you bought a
home for the first time or
you've owned one
for a long time,
if you invested in making your
home more energy-efficient with
certain improvements like
new insulation or windows,
or you plan to this year, you're eligible for up to $1,500 in new
tax credits.
This does more than just put
money back in your pocket;
it's helping create new
clean energy, manufacturing,
and construction jobs at small
businesses across the country.
Fifth, to help working families
with children through difficult
times, we increased the Earned
Income Tax Credit and allowed
more families to qualify
for the Child Tax Credit.
Finally, for those who lost
their jobs in the recession and
need some help getting
back on their feet,
we provided a 65% tax credit to
help cover the cost of health
care and we made sure the first $2,400 in unemployment benefits
is tax-free.
These are among the tax breaks
and savings that are available
to over one hundred million
Americans right now.
It's also important to note
that the new health reform law
includes the largest middle
class tax cut for health care in
history, and once
it's implemented;
millions of Americans will
finally be able to purchase
quality, affordable care and the
security and peace of mind that
comes with it.
And one thing we have not
done is raise income taxes on
families making less
than $250,000 a year.
That's another promise
that we've kept.
We've also made it easy to find
out what's owed to you and your family.
After all, the big guys know
how to find their tax breaks;
it's time you did, too.
Just visit whitehouse.gov and
click on the Tax Savings Tool.
It's already been accessed more than 100,000 times by folks who
want to see what savings they're owed and how to collect them.
If you've already filed your
taxes and missed some of the
savings available to
you, don't worry --
you can still amend your returns
after April 15th to save
hundreds or even
thousands of dollars.
And just as each of us meet our
responsibilities as citizens,
we expect our businesses and our
government to meet theirs in return.
That's why I've asked Congress
to close some of the biggest tax
loopholes exploited by some of
our most profitable corporations
to avoid paying
their fair share --
or, in some cases,
paying taxes at all.
That's why we're tightening
Washington's belt by cutting
programs that don't work, and
contracts that aren't fair,
and spending we don't need.
And that's why I've proposed
a freeze on discretionary
spending, signed the law that
restores the pay-as-you-go
principle that helped produce
the surpluses of the 1990s,
and created a bipartisan,
independent commission to help
solve our fiscal crisis and
close the deficits that have
been growing for a decade.
Because I refuse to leave our
problems to the next generation.
It's been a tough couple
years for America.
But the economy's growing again.
Companies are beginning
to hire again.
We are rewarding work and
helping more of our people reach
for the American Dream again.
And while there's no doubt
we still face a long journey
together, with
more steps to take,
more obstacles to overcome, and
more challenges to face along
the way; if there's one thing
on which the people of this
great country have convinced me,
it's that the United States of
America will recover,
stronger than before.
Thanks for listening,
and have a great weekend.